tech types:
Mechanical Prompts:
	- vocal, gestural, physical, written/pictorial, and signed
	prompts
	(MacDuff, Krantz, &
	McClannahan, 2001).
- audio, tactile
Video prompts
Computer-Based Interventions
Speech generating device


Auditory prompting devices often require less manpower to result in positive change which is a
critical benefit given the increasing number of children with autism served in local school settings where
teacher resources may be scarce. Modern auditory prompts such as auditory pagers, portable compact
disc players, and MP3 players are relatively small and unobtrusive and are used by enough children to
minimize any stigma associated with carrying one for therapeutic purposes. Despite these apparent
benefits, the paucity of literature focusing on technology-based auditory prompting for children with
autism makes generalization of current findings difficult. Future research, as suggested by Taber et al.
(1999), should continue to examine the effectiveness of self-operated auditory prompting systems with
this population. Although Taber et al. (1999) & Coyle and Cole (2004) focused on decreasing off-task
behavior, future investigations should also evaluate the effectiveness of auditory prompting for skill
acquisition.


Tactile stimulation in the form of manual gestural and physical prompts has often been used
successfully for children with autism. However, the inherent limitation of manual prompting is the
requirement for constant close proximity of a second person (e.g., parent, researcher, peer, etc.), which
can be intrusive and demanding of human resources. As with auditory prompting, the development of
electromechanical, tactile prompting devices is removing the need for the presence of a second individual.
Although there are limits to the capabilities of existing prompting/vibratory devices, currently available
products (e.g., Follow Through Inc., 2003; JTECH Communications Inc., 2004) provide researchers who
lack design and manufacturing expertise the opportunity to conduct research in this area.

Given the efficacy demonstrated thus far, research utilizing tactile prompting should be expanded.
One broad area for future research involves the application of technology-based prompts to other skill
areas. Thus far, research has focused on increasing social initiations in play settings or as a means to
solicit help. However, this technology could be applied to numerous skills. For example, tactile
prompting could be used to prompt children to look before crossing the street, to take medication, or to
increase eye contact. The second area for future research involves development of strategies or modified
technology to allow more effective prompt fading. Researchers’ ability to successfully fade mechanical
prompts may be dependent on their ability to vary the prompts along a variety of stimulus dimensions
such as volume or vibration intensity. For example, Shabani et al. (2002) decreased the frequency of
prompts but were unable to alter the stimulus along dimensions that might have been more amenable to
fading such as vibration intensity. If researchers collaborate with technology developers on design of
future products, new and better options may become available that will more closely match mechanical
technology (e.g., pagers) with behavioral technology (e.g., stimulus fading). Additionally, as children
become frequent users of small, electronic devices for personal communication (e.g., cell phones, pagers,
MP3 players, PDA’s, etc.) the use of discrete auditory and tactile prompting devices becomes a more
socially valid and economically feasible intervention for children with autism.

Video technology has proven useful as a tool for modeling appropriate behavior, providing
feedback, and creating discrimination opportunities for the child's own behavior, and as a medium for
presenting basic instruction that many children find engaging (Sturmey, 2003).

While there are several demonstrations of the effectiveness of video modeling, only one
published study has directly compared the use of video modeling to live modeling. The preliminary
results from this comparative study indicate that incorporation of video may result in superior intervention
effectiveness. Charlop-Christy, Le, & Freeman (2000) compared the effectiveness of video modeling to in
vivo modeling for teaching developmental skills to children with autism and found that video modeling
led to faster acquisition of play, language, and self -help skills and generalization of skills that was not
observed in the in vivo condition. The authors suggest that video modeling may result in more ready
generalization than in vivo modeling because it (a) uses a relatively simple format to present concepts in a
systematic way, (b) effectively gains and maintains children’s attention, and (c) is a less “emotionally
laden” way to learn. Additionally, video modeling offers the freedom to present a variety of exemplars to
facilitate maintenance and generalization and allows easy repetition of the model without the requirement
of repeated model effort and the risk of inconsistency in the model. Additional comparative studies are
needed to support this preliminary finding.

Overall, video is an increasingly popular, economical, readily available, user-friendly technology
that can prove beneficial for children with autism. Although the production of video modeling tapes may
be initially effortful and time consuming, taped models can be used repeatedly with the same child and
with other children who have similar deficits. Researchers and clinicians who create video models for
children with autism should keep several design features in mind. First, video models should display clear
and detailed behaviors. Second, make im portant stimulus features as salient as possible while minimizing
irrelevant or distracting stimuli to combat potential problems with stimulus overselectivity (LeBlanc et
al., 2003). Clinicians may want to create several versions of the model that includes progressively more
distracter stimuli or decreased salience of the target stimulus. Additionally, video models should teach
multiple exemplars to promote generalization and minimize the likelihood of rote responding (e.g., Sherer
et al., 2001). Finally, one should combine video modeling with other treatment components (e.g., roleplay,
reinforcement, etc.) to increase the probability that efficient learning will occur.

Computer-based intervention:
There is mounting evidence that computer-based interventions are beneficial for children with
autism but the critical question is whether computer-based instruction is more beneficial than its low-tech
counterpart.
Several comparative studies suggested that CBI results in increased motivation, reduced behavior problems, increased attention and sometimes results in increased learning compared to traditional methods.
First, computer programming allows unlimited control of stimulus presentation
that allows researchers and clinicians to present repeated learning trials in an identical or systematically
varied format. Additionally, computer-based reinforcers can be delivered immediately following
responses, and the delivery of reinforcement can easily be changed for schedule thinning purposes and
varied to reduce the likelihood of satiation. Finally, although typically used as a single person technology,
computers have the ability to permit concurrent, or “cooperative,” use (i.e., two children with two
joysticks). Given that many parents are often concerned that use of technology will promote isolation and
decreased interpersonal interaction, this is a notable feature.

Speech generating device:
There are several potential advantages to using SGD to support communication.
First, they are often highly portable (Mechling 2011). For example, when the
correct software application is installed, a handheld iPod or iPad can be used as a
SGD device, and the ubiquity of such handheld devices among the typically
developing population might also help reduce the stigmatization of using assistive
technology for communication (Kagohara et al. 2013). Second, because electronic
speech is produced, communication attempts may be more easily understood by
most communication partners than more ambiguous forms of AAC such as sign
language (Mirenda 2001). Finally, the SGD models the correct spoken message
during moments when the person is motivated to communicate and some studies
have demonstrated that using a SGD may lead to the acquisition of spoken
communication (Schlosser and Wendt 2008).