V switch sections: quantitative further, then qualitative further (factors for improvement)
V engagement and visual attention qualitative analysis (lack of visually obvious measures / indicators)
parent poast intervention survey comments results
discussions



- report what worked and what didn't for robot prompt protocols





new organization for analysis and results:

V QN: parent involvement level
V QN: number of parent physical intervention prompts

V QN: percentage of steps completed (with and without parent physical intervention)
V QN: compliance rate - (with and without parent prompts)
V QN: step completion vs compliance cluster analysis
	V => produce four figures, one overlapping the other (1 phase, 2 phases, 3 phases, 4 phases, for clarity)

QL: 
in the phases,
how did parent / robot prompt
child compliance
key indicators of improvement
child gaze

V QN: quantify improvements of the key indicators / steps
	X wait for R's turn on water
	X comply to R's soap termination prompt	
	V comply to R's rinse prompts
	X not terminating rinse by himself
	V rinse duration increase?
	=> V rinse prompt compliance
	   V longest continuous rinse duration
   
actually, one can argue that, since rinse step had the most improvements, and that the parent focused on improving the rinse step the most during the training phase, there is a cause and effect link between them, and the learning effect only as a way to limit how fast the improvement happens, but to which step is determined by the parent's training effort.




which steps are being skipped during phase C?
transition trial (1st trial of the next phase) always have outlier? what happened in the first trial of 2nd phase B? It's an outlier trial to the rest of that phase...


include all the names in the annotation framework column to thesis?
make the distinction between attempt and sucessfully execute in thesis?
discuss the decision to use AG sparingly, if used at all

The reason why we grouped scrub and rinse hands as one step was because the our participant was not able to make a distinction between the two steps.

MoDemo serves more than just clarifying action, its fast moving visual action is salient to our participant, and can be used as a way to grab and maintain attention of the child during prompt

robot prompts mimick parent's prompts quite closely (list key similarities. and some key differences) and represent the natural way of prompting the child.
