

are there studies for all sorts of activities of daily living?
if not, what's there, what's lacking, why?
can they be categorized into groups?

for the studies there, what are common strategies / forms of ATCs?
how's their effectiveness?
what seems to work, what doesn't? what's missing / needing investigation?


for each study:
what outcome
what technology (CBI, video, or both)
how it was used (is video first person or third person, is reinforcement used, what prompts are used (video, verbal, tactile, etc.), is there prompting hierarchy, is it in-vitro or in-vivo)
was it effective

Ayres et al.
making sandwich, making soup with microwave, and setting table
CBI + video instructions (CBVI), no in-vivo instructions
good skill acquisition and maintenance and generalization
The images that the student saw during
CBVI consisted of video images filmed from a
1st person perspective (c.f. Ayres & Langone,
2007)
Videos showed a narrated step-bystep
walk-through of each target skill.
Once in the program, the student
viewed two narrated video models of the target
task being completed. 
Once the student completed viewing the
video models, the program asked them to
complete the skill in a computer simulation.
a modified system of
least prompts (SLP) instructional arrangement
(Wolery, Ault, & Doyle, 1992).
Students were allowed 10s to respond using
the mouse, if they did not respond, or began
an incorrect response (e.g. clicked on the
wrong item to pick up), the computer stopped
them and delivered the next level in the
prompt hierarchy. 
1. Independent:
2. Verbal:
3. Model prompt: computer shows a visual
response prompt in the form of a video
model
4. Stimulus Prompt: analogous to a “partial
physical” prompt in terms of level of intrusion,
the stimulus prompt created a bright
yellow “halo” on the location where the
student needed to click. 
5. “Full Physical”: the computer controlled
the images on the screen and completed
the step for the student.
No programmed reinforcement was provided
for correct responses during CBVI. A
reinforcer game was available non-contingently
on student performance after the student
completed the simulation. A teacher, or
a parent (for Ray in the home), supervised all
CBVI sessions and did not provide any feedback
to the student. They were present only to
monitor the performance of the computer
program and to keep students on task. During
the course of the study, students generally
displayed eagerness to work on the program
and no attention problems were noted.

Bereznak et al.
washing machine, making noodles, and using a copy machine were taught
video prompting via an iPhone.
During probes on laundry,
the iPhone was placed on top of the dryer, which was located directly left of the
washing machine. During probes on cooking, the iPhone was located to the right of
the microwave and to the left of the supplies needed to cook. During both daily living
conditions, the data collector stood behind and to the right of the participant. The
reliability data collector stood behind and to the left of the participant.
During probes on copying, the iPhone was placed to the right of the
keypad, on top of the cut out for paperclips. The data collector stood behind and to
the right of the participant and during reliability sessions, the reliability collector
stood behind and to the left of the participant
Videos were filmed using an adult model and
shot from the performer’s perspective—point of view video modeling (Cihak and
Schrader 2009)
At the start of each step, a single word to describe the step was
displayed on the screen (e.g., the screen displayed “TURN”). Following this, a video
clip of the step to be performed with a built in audio description of the action required
was played (e.g., video of a hand turning the dial to the correct place while the audio
played “turn the dial to setting for regular”). After the video clip with audio was played,
the screen displayed a red octagonal stop sign, with audio that said, “stop.” The participants
were taught to press the pause button once the stop sign appeared on the screen.
After pausing, the participants completed the step that was just shown on the video. Once
participants completed the step, they pressed play on the screen to go onto the next step.
Students were taught to use the iPhone prior to the baseline sessions. Students were
presented with a novel task in which they could not predict the next step (simple
assembly task). Since the participants had no history with the task, the only option
was to refer to the iPhone for prompting. This task consisted of assembling various
color magnets to magnetic balls in a specific color order. The researcher modeled the
use of the iPhone with the task to the participants. The instructor also narrated what
they were doing while performing the task. For example, the iPhone would be preset
on a training video, just as it would be during intervention conditions. The researcher
would say, “press play,” while pressing the play triangle on the iPhone. After pressing
play the teacher would comment, “watch the video,” as the video prompt began to
play. At the completion of the clip, the instructor said, “wait for the stop sign,” as the
stop sign was displayed on the screen, “and press pause,” and the pause button was
pressed on the iPhone, and “do the step” as the instructor performed the previously
modeled task. This was repeated for the entire length of the training video followed
by the participants practicing use of the iPhone with the skill. Errors made while
using the iPhone were interrupted and verbally prompted with the phrases mentioned
above.
Training videos were used until the participant was performing the task using the
iPhone with no verbal prompts from the instructor.


Hutcherson et al.
CBI
items selected in a grocery store
researcher sat to the right of participant to help maneuver through the computer program
Each session consisted of 16 trials
Community setting.
where the participant was positioned within 3 meters of the
target stimuli by the researcher. The researcher stood
approximately 1 meter behind the participant and the
reliability data collector stood approximately 3 meter behind
the researcher.
Computer and classroom setting.
The researcher sat to the right of the
participant to help maneuver through the computer program.
The
computer program included a cartoon tutor named Shopper
Bob. He acted as a narrator, gave task directions, provided
corrective feedback, and reinforced accurate responses. In the
grocery store 8 centimeter by 10 centimeter index cards with
photographs of the target stimuli were used as discriminative
stimuli and the students needed no other materials.
a correct response was defined as the
student selecting the target stimuli appearing on the shelf or
in the freezer independently within 30 seconds of the initial
task direction; similarly, in the computer based probes (CBP),
a correct response was defined as clicking the correct match
appearing on the screen within 30 seconds of the initial task
direction. An incorrect response in both probes was defined as
selecting an incorrect item in the allotted 30 seconds. A no
response was recorded if the participant did not make a
selection within 30 seconds of the task direction.
During CAI, participants were able to respond in one of
five different ways:
1. Unprompted Correct: a correct response given within
the time limit for the stimulus set (see Table 2 for list of
time limits)
2. Prompted Correct: a correct response following the
model prompt (model prompts were displayed if the
student did not respond within the initial time period.
3. Unprompted Incorrect: a response initiated of an
incorrect topography performed within in the time limit
4. Prompted Incorrect: an incorrect response occurring
after the model prompt
5. No Response: this was scored when the student did not
initiate a response within before or after the model prompt.
Grocery Store Probes:
After the researcher positioned the participant 3 meters
from the target stimuli, she handed the picture of the item to
the participant and as an attention cue said “What cereal is
this?” After the participant’s response, the researcher said,
“Find same.” The participant had up to 60 seconds to locate
the item and make a selection by grasping, touching, or
pointing to the target item, although the response was scored
as correct, incorrect, or no response after 30 seconds.
Correct responses resulted in the item being put in the
shopping cart while incorrect responses were put back on the
shelf or ignored.
If the participant did not respond
within 60 seconds, the researcher said “Let’s try another one”
and started the next trial.
Computer Probe Procedures:
Sessions began with the task direction: “Click on the item
that matches the item in your flipbook.” The participant had
30 seconds to locate the target item and click on the item
using the mouse or touching the item if using a touch screen.
When the student made a correct selection, the item moved
into the shopping cart in the bottom left corner of the screen
and the next trial began. The student received no verbal praise
for correct responses during CBP. The computer ignored
incorrect and no response errors and immediately began the
next trial.
Computer Based Instruction:
If the participant made a correct selection, the item
automatically moved into the shopping cart at the bottom left
corner of the screen with a reinforcement prompt of “Good
job,” “Well done,” “That’s right,” or “Great job.” The next trial
then began. If the participant made an incorrect selection, the
program prompted, “That isn’t the item that is in your
flipbook. Let me show you” and then modeled how to scan left
to right and top to bottom until the target item was found. A
bright yellow box flashed around the correct match along with
the auditory prompt, “This was the correct item. Try it again.”
If the participant was correct the second time, the item moved
into the cart and the next trial began.
==>dxnote: the prompts are the modeled bright yellow box flashing
Acquisition and Generalization
All students accurately located more items following
intervention than they did during baseline conditions.

Mechling and O’Brien Pg73
CBVI
were able to generalize the skill to the actual bus route with no in-vivo instruction
able to maintain the skill across time.
PowerPoint was used to develop the CBVI
program which simulated the bus route and
destination using video and photographs. Students
accessed the program using a Magic
Touch touch screen (Keytec, Inc). The first
slide for each video model contained a photograph
of the destination store and recorded
voice with the task direction, “Riding the bus
to Target.” The slide was advanced to the next
slide which contained an inserted video
model of the bus route and three photographs
of the landmarks (Figure 1).
Video models. Video recordings were developed
from a person first perspective as if the
student was walking to the bus stop, boarding
the bus and using a bus pass, sitting down,
riding the bus, looking out the window for
landmarks and bus stops, pushing the “request
to stop signal” and exiting the bus.
While recording the video model the person
operating the camera also recorded (voice
over) verbal cues associated with the three
landmarks: “Look for Advanced Auto Parts”,
“Look for Olive Garden,” “Push the request to
stop signal when you see the Chick-Fil-A and
Target sign.” At the beginning of each session
the student watched the entire video model
for the target route and destination followed
by the first trial using video prompting (Mechling
et al., 2003).
Video prompts. Video segments were recorded
for the bus route for use during 0s and
3s video prompting instructional trials. These
recordings were also made from a person first
perspective, but did not include voice over.
The video segments were for: a) walking to the
bus stop, boarding the bus, using a pass, sitting
down, riding the bus, passing landmarks,
pushing the “request to stop signal” at the
target landmark; and b) standing up and exiting
at the correct bus stop. During the first
trial using CBVI (following video modeling)
the student saw the first PowerPoint slide of a
video segment (from a person first perspective)
of walking to the bus stop, boarding the
bus, using a pass, sitting down, riding the bus,
and looking out the window for landmarks.
As the bus
passed the three landmarks there were no
verbal cues provided during video prompting.
During the playing of this video segment
(looking out the window for landmarks), a
photograph of the “request to stop bus signal”
was positioned at the bottom right corner of
the PowerPoint slide (Figure 2). When selected
(using the touch screen) the photograph button
was programmed to stop the video. If
correct (selecting the photograph at the correct
landmark) the instructor advanced the
program to the next slide which contained a
voice over, “Yes, that’s right. Push the request
to stop signal when you see the Chick-Fil-A
and Target sign” and a video segment showed
the bus stopping and exiting the bus.
Incorrect
responses resulted in the instructor and student
boarding the next available bus and returning
to the school site. Correct responses
were reinforced by walking to the destination
and making a purchase before boarding the
bus and returning to the school site. Students
also received non-specific verbal praise such
as, “You’re doing a nice job,” on the average of
one time per bus route for general attending
and completion of mastered steps (i.e. “You
sat down quickly when you got on the bus”).
(a) unprompted correct (initiating
and touching the photograph of the
“request to stop bus signal” within 3s of the
target landmark appearing on the screen);
(b) unprompted incorrect (touching the photograph
before the target landmark appeared
on the screen); (c) prompted correct (touching
the photograph within 3s of the instructor
prompt); (d) prompted incorrect (touching
something else on the screen); and (e) no
response (failure to initiate touching the photograph
within 3s of the instructor prompt).

Rosenberg et al.
using a commercially available video model to
teach three preschoolers with autism to wash their hands. While one child
learned 80% of the hand washing steps, 2 of the 3 children did not learn from
the commercial model.
customized video
model, which resulted in at least some acquisition of the skill for the two
students who did not learn from the commercial model
Videos were viewed in a 11.5 ft x 9.5 ft room near one of the classrooms. => in-vitro
Hand washing probes occurred in bathrooms used by all students
including the three participants.
Commercial video.
One 25-second model of
appropriate handwashing was selected
The
model was a male child, approximately 8 years old, who is shown
walking into the school and washing his hands. No verbal narration
of the steps is provided in the tape; however, several admonitions are
given: “always remember to wash your hands when you’re done” and
“and don’t forget, dry those hands.” In addition, the words “Wash”
and “Dry” appear in the tape when the model is performing these
actions.
Customized video.
Each child’s tape included a familiar child as model. Two of the participants
had a twin sibling who served as the model (Charlie, twin
brother; Aaron, twin sister) while a favorite preschool peer served as
the model for John.
The video included narration accompanying each target step
(i.e., “first, you wet your hands, then you get soap”) and enthusiastic
praise at the end of the hand washing sequence.
Baseline.
No prompts
occurred during hand washing and no feedback was provided during
baseline.
Commercial Video Model.
The instructor stated,
“We’re going to learn how to wash hands” and played the model two
times. Attending was praised intermittently and sitting was praised at
completion, but no prompts were provided. The experimenter then
escorted the child to the bathroom and stated, “wash your hands, just
like on the tape.” Similar to baseline, toileting was allowed if the child
initiated, no prompts occurred, and 30 seconds were allowed for completion
of a step and progression to the next step before the session
was terminated.
Custom Video Model.
were identical to the commercial
video condition except for the content of the video model (see
above) and the instruction to wash hands (i.e., “wash your hands, just
like [model’s name] did on the tape”).

Shipley-Benamou et al.
Videotapes were developed from the participant’s viewing
perspective
was effective in promoting skill acquisition across all three children and maintained during the
postvideo phase and a 1-month follow up.
tasks the child did not know how to complete were selected==>
The tasks for Danny were making orange juice,
preparing a letter to be mailed, and setting the table. For
David, the tasks were cleaning a fish bowl and setting the
table. The tasks for Amy were feeding her cat, putting a letter
in a mailbox, and setting the table.
holding the camera in a set position
(over the shoulder of the adult model) allowing for
only the hands of the model and necessary materials to be
visible in the camera lens.
At the beginning of each task, a narrator’s voice was
heard on the videotape giving the instruction: “Here is
everything your friend needs to [task]. When I say “go” I
want you to watch your friend [task]. Ready, go.”With the
desire to facilitate initial attending to the training video, a
5-s animated video segment of the child’s favorite cartoon
was dubbed with the same instruction as in the training
tape and then inserted at the beginning of the instructional
video displaying the task.
BASELINE
During each session the experimenter
provided the following statement: “[Name],
here is everything you need to [task]. When I say “go” I
want you to [task]. Do the best you can.”
Sessions
were terminated when the subject ceased to engage in the
appropriate behaviors needed to complete the task after
60 s and responded affirmatively (i.e., nodding head or
verbally indicating) to the experimenter’s question, “Are
you finished/all done?” During baseline, praise was provided
for attending behaviors only.
INSTRUCTIONAL VIDEO MODELING INTERVENTION
Once the child sat in the chair,
the child was told that a video would be shown.
the video of the target
task was shown to the child one time only.
After the video was completed
the child was immediately presented with
the same instructions as in baseline.
praise was provided for attending behaviors only.
Once criterion was reached, which consisted of 100% acquisition
on all steps of a task, reinforcement in the form
of praise paired with either candy or access to a preferred
toy was provided.

Sigafoos et al. (2007b)
wash dishes.
video prompting and fading
video clips depicting each step of the task
skill acquired only when prompts were present (although with fading skill still there)
maintenance was achieved for with prompt only, without prompt skill never learned
Each step of the task analysis was initially filmed as an individual video clip
from the perspective
of the performer completing the task
each
clip also included a one-sentence voice-over instruction.
the voice-over
instructed the participant to: First, plug the sink.
The voice-over instruction for this
step was: Now, put the dishes in the sink.
Baseline 1
Okay [name], can you wash those dishes? while simultaneously
pointing to the plate, cup, and spoon.
The session terminated if the participant
failed to initiate subsequent steps within 30 s of having completed a previous step
in the task
Any errors, such as the failure to wash
all three items, were ignored. Following completion of the session, participants
were thanked for washing their dishes, irrespective of their performance during
the session.
Video Prompting 1 (VP1)
computer was placed on the counter approximately 50 cm
to the right of the sink, which made the screen easily visible to participants. After
finishing the snack, the trainer pointed to the computer screen and said, Okay,
[name], watch this. The trainer then played the video clip showing the first step
of the dish washing task analysis. When the video clip ended, the trainer said,
Okay, [name], now you do it. At this point, the participant was given 30 s to
complete the step. If the participant failed to complete the step within 30 s or
made an error, the trainer completed the step correctly and as unobtrusively as
possible so as to prevent the participant from seeing the step being completed
correctly. After this, the trainer pointed to the computer screen and said, Okay
[name], watch this. The trainer then played the video clip depicting the next step
in the task analysis. This same process was followed until all of the video clips
had been shown in sequence. Following completion of the session, participants
were thanked for washing their dishes, irrespective of their performance during the
session.

Sigafoos et al.
make popcorn using a microwave oven.
During baseline, participants were instructed to make
popcorn, but were given no further instructions or prompts. Video prompting consisted
of first watching a video clip of a step being performed and then giving
participants the opportunity to imitate that step.
Following acquisition,
video prompting was removed and maintenance in the absence of video
prompting was assessed at 2, 6, and 10 weeks. Two of the three participants acquired
the task when video prompting was introduced and performed at 80–100%
correct during follow-up sessions.
The clips were filmed from the
performer’s perspective.
each clip included a one-sentence voice-over instruction
e.g. First, take the bag
out of its wrapper
the performer’s arm—moving toward and pressing the START panel on
the microwave oven
As this occurred, a voice-over instructed the adult to“Press
the button that says START”.
initial instruction (e.g., Ok Jim, make some popcorn). All subsequent steps
had to be completed within 30 s.
Baseline 1
given the verbal instruction:
“Ok [name] make some popcorn.” If the participant did not complete the step
within 30 s, the trainer completed the step and then instructed the participant
to continue by asking: “What’s next?” After the final step, whether completed
by the trainer or participant, the participant was allowed to eat about 6 oz of the
popcorn that had been made.
Video Prompting
computer was placed on the counter to
the left of the bag of popcorn and the bowl and the participants were oriented to
face the computer screen. The trainer would start the video of the first step and ask
the participant to watch this, as the trainer pointed to the computer screen. After
viewing the video clip, the trainer said now you do it. At this point, the participant
was given 30 s to complete the step. If the participant failed to complete a step
within 30 s, the trainer completed the step and proceeded to show the next clip
in the task analysis using the same procedure as for the first step. In other words,
each participant would watch the video for one step of the task analysis, then have
the opportunity to complete that step, then be shown the video for the next step
of the task analysis and have the opportunity to complete that step, and so on for
the remainder of the steps. No additional instructions, feedback, or prompts were
delivered other than the one sentence instruction provided in the video clips.

Van Laarhoven et al.
video prompting and picture prompting
that video prompting was slightly more effective in terms of independent correct
responding, fewer external prompts for task completion, and fewer prompts to use instructional materials.
microwave pasta and folding laundry using a flip-and-fold.
A man who was a teaching
assistant in the classroom acted as the model in both of the
tasks, and the photos and videos displayed him engaging in
the skill sequence using both zoom and wide-angle shots
(i.e., combination of “other” model and subjective or firstperson
viewpoint for zoom shots).
shot with a combination of wideangle
(full view of the model) and a few zoom shots
(showing the arm of the model setting the microwave).
Zoom shots for both the picture- and video-based materials
were used to ensure that participants attended to the critical
aspects of the steps (e.g., setting the microwave for 4 min).
picture prompts:
After saving the pictures to the desktop,
they were imported into Microsoft PowerPoint, with one
step in the task analysis per slide. A short description of
each step was placed on the top of each slide (e.g., “Set
Microwave”), and the picture(s) was placed below. When
more than one picture was presented on the slide, a text box
with a sequenced number was placed on each picture to
indicate the correct order of substeps. The PowerPoint presentation
was then printed, with one slide per page. After
the materials were printed, they were laminated, sequenced,
hole-punched in the top left corner, and held together with
a notebook ring to create a booklet.
During
the intervention, the participants looked at the picture(s) on
one page, engaged in the step, went back to the booklet,
turned the page, engaged in the next step, and so forth until
the skill sequence was completed.
video prompts
Skill sequences (e.g., making microwave
pasta) were broken into short video segments (for each
step). Photos of the most salient feature of the steps (e.g., a
still shot of “4:00” on the microwave) were “grabbed” out
of the video and placed at the beginning of each video
segment. Voiceover narrations were then added to each
segment to describe the actions being depicted in each segment
and to cover the background noise that was present in
the setting during filming (e.g., the bell ringing, announcements
over the intercom). Each step of the task was edited
and saved as a separate file and placed in a PowerPoint presentation.
Each slide in the PowerPoint presentation had a
short description of the step on the top of the screen and the
grabbed photo visible in the middle of the screen. The slide
show was set so that the participants had to move the cursor
to the photo and use a mouse click to view the video prior
to completing the step. After completing the step, the
participants clicked on a hyperlinked “Next” button at the
bottom right of the screen to advance to the next slide.
During intervention, participants
viewed the video segment of each step on a laptop
computer prior to engaging in each step until the task was
completed.
For pretest sessions, participants were brought to the
instructional area and were told what task they were going
to perform. They were asked to do their best and told that if
they did not know what to do at any point, they could ask
the researchers to complete the step for them. Each participant
was given an instructional cue, such as “fold clothes,”
“cook the spaghetti,” “wash the dishes,” and so forth; the
verbal cue was used throughout the session. If participants
made errors during the testing phases or did not respond
within 10 s, the experimenter asked them to turn away or
close their eyes, and the step with the error was completed
for them. The researcher then gave the next instructional
cue to get the participant to continue with the task. This
protocol was repeated until the task was completed, and no
feedback related to task performance was given; however,
praise statements were delivered for staying on task and
working hard.
Training participants to use technology and photos
participant was
taught to use each of the prompting systems via a modellead-
test format until he could use the prompting systems
independently to complete a task that was unrelated to the
instructional tasks (i.e., cleaning a desk). They were taught
to use a picture booklet and taught to operate the laptop to
navigate through the PowerPoint presentation until they
could independently use the materials to prompt responses
for three consecutive sessions.
Instructional sessions.
they were told which task
they were going to do for the day and shown the prompting
system. They were then given the instructional cue of either
“fold clothes” or “cook pasta.” Participants used the
prompting devices by looking at the picture in the booklet
or playing the video segment on the laptop prior to performing
each step in the skill sequence. They then returned to
the booklet or computer to prompt the next step until the
entire sequence was completed. Researchers intervened
only if participants made an error or needed a prompt to use
the technology. Praise statements were delivered to reinforce
correct responding during task engagement, and high
fives or knuckle bumps were given following the completion
of the tasks. In addition, participants were allowed to
eat the pasta dishes or give them to peers or faculty of their
choosing.




=================================

Adaptive and daily-living skills, such as self-care (e.g., grooming, dressing,
cooking), organization (e.g., time management, money management), and
community or recreational skills (e.g., using public transportation or the library),
have been noted as essential for an individual to function successfully and independently
(Liss et al. 2001).
Unfortunately, individuals
diagnosed with ASD often struggle to acquire the adaptive and daily living skills
necessary to live independently and often come to rely on caregivers for assistance.Smith et al. (2012) 


instructions delivered using picture-based systems, hand-held personal
computers, auditory prompting systems, and video models 

Instructional procedures
included prompting, prompt fading, and reinforcement. In order to promote generalization,
study authors incorporated images and videos taken directly from the
natural environment in order to make the instructional environment and materials
more closely resemble the natural environment (Stokes and Baer 1977)

some studies had
 follow-up probes to assess
 the maintenance of acquired skills were also conducted and, in the majority of
 cases, the skill was maintained.

Three studies evaluated CBI to promote independent and daily
living skills in individuals with ASD (Ayres et al. 2009; Hutcherson 2004;
Mechling and O’Brien 2010).

For instance, Ayres et al. (2009) delivered
instructions using a computer software program to teach food preparation and table
setting to three children (ages 7 to 9 years old) with autism.
This instructional program is designed to present a video simulation of the environment
for three unique tasks (i.e., setting table, making soup, and making
sandwich) and required children to respond by arranging materials in a simulated
environment (e.g., putting utensils on the table)

Three studies used portable laptop computers (Sigafoos et al. 2005, 2007a, b, c;
van Laarhoven et al. 2010), two studies used a television and video player
(Rosenberg et al. 2010; Shipley-Benamou et al. 2002), and one study used an
iPhone (Bereznak et al. 2012) to deliver video prompts.

