V (1hr) past tense, contractions, other gramar fixes, and small fixes

X gaze pattern comparison between first phase B, phase C, and second phase B
	- (1hr) method of determination / observation -> pick at most three instances of interest for gaze pattern description
	- (2hr) comparing these instances across phases
	- (1hr) write up the results

V how to tie quantitative and qualitative analysis together:
		=> quantitative data for parent involvement, task completion, and compliance overall prior to qualitative analysis
		=> quantitative data for indicators of improvement identified by qualitative analysis after qualitative analysis
V video data annotation -> for purpose of describing the data quantitatively, can then be used to clarify and depict things discussed in qualitative analysis
	 (1hr) what things should be depicted by quantitative figures / tables?
	 (2hr) generate those figures, describe method and results
	 (1hr) discuss them in qualitative section
V further hypotheses testing using quantitative methods
	 (2hr) what hypotehses generated by qualitative analysis that should / could be tested quantitatively for quantifying its effect size? -> what to cut from the quantitative analysis section?
	 (2hr) generate missing figures
	 (2hr) fix discussion section
 (2hr) overall discussion and limitation section

V (1hr) why and how to combine qualitative and quantitative researches for case study, and particularly for this thesis

X parent interview field notes -> raw notes and summarization, which one to present and where and how?
	 same problem exist for observations field notes / descriptions of the trials vs. its summaries
	X => possible solution is to quote actual field notes / interview quotes etc. (raw data) as supporting evidence for each summary claims


	
	

- For the qualitative analysis, is it okay to conclude that there are only two main learning effects that resulted in child's improvements in compliance: natural familiarization and parent training (robot delay improvement played minimal role), and that we cannot distinguish which one is more important at the moment?

AM:  I think that you can suggest these two as potential learning effects.  It is hard to make a firm conclusion, but these are potential ones that you can include and discuss.


- Also, is it too bold to claim that, since we've seen continual improvements in robot prompt compliance in the final four visits (1 visit a week, so it's about a month), even though we did not achieve the same level of prompt compliance to robot as to parent, it shows promising results that given longer and more intense training period (everyday instead of once per week, and maybe two months instead of a month), we would achieve similar effectiveness of prompts by the robot compared to the parent, and thus have an effective prompting system that's able to replace the parent in helping the child through hand-washing?

AM:  I think that you can say that we started to see compliance, and that if we continued on we think that it would have continued.  Just make sure you state what evidence you are using to make this claim.


- Now that the quantitative analysis plays more of a "further describing the data and quantify certain effect of interest" role, which quantitative analysis figures should I cut so that the thesis is more coherent and clear?

AM:  See my comments in the thesis around how to arrange this.  I think that the quantitative and qualitative need to be integrated more in that you need to use each one to explain the other as much as possible.  Once you address my comments and finish writing this section we can see if anything should be cut.